Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to create programs that implement specific algorithms. .
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Java Development Kit contains :
-Java Runtime Environment:is a set of software tools for development of Java applications
-interpreter(java):
-compiler (javac):A compiler is a software program that transforms high-level source code in a high-level programming language into a low level (binary code)  .
-archiver (jar):
-documentation generator (javadoc):
What is IDE?
A. is an integrated development environment for programming.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
-Eclipse ,Intellij,Netbeans ,
Explain the entire java life cycle.
-When you write a source code using either notepad or eclipse IDE, it needs to be converted into byte code using javac compiler. Byte code is in the form of .class .  The class file then loads into the JVM using java loader . the JVM then send all the information to the operating system which shows you the output
what is class?
-blueprint of an object
What is object?
-is instance of class
What is the entry point of an application?
-are used to control users' access to different versions of an application
Why main is static?
-because is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
- java.lang.Object
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
-Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
-Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
-Interface contain abstract methods
-Abstract Class contain abstract and non abstract  methods
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
-help to restrict the scope of class, constructor,,variables,methods .
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
-00P:object Oriented Programming : is a programming language model organized around objects rather than "actions" and data rather than logic.
--Abstraction : is a mechanism of hiding implementations details from the user  .
--Inheritance: is a mechanism in witch an abject acquires the properties and behavior of the parent object
--Interface :is a mechanism of hiding data
--polymorphism: means having many forms ,it is achieved by function overloading or  overloading.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









